First, let's discuss quantitative data,
including the benefits and drawbacks of using this type of data.
Quantitative data is any data that expresses account,
amount, or range in a numeric fashion.
Quantitative data can be used to answer questions like how many,
how often, and how much.
Examples of quantitative data would be the count of visitors
to a website or the percent of customers who use a feature.
Collecting quantitative data provides a great number of benefits to product managers,
but quantitative data also has limitations.
A major benefit of quantitative data is that
quantitative data provides descriptive measurements of how a product is used,
such as the number of users and the number of times those users perform an action.
As discussed when looking at segment analysis,
quantitative data also allows product managers to
analyze data for trends and differences between groups.
Quantitative data also has major drawbacks.
The biggest drawback is that quantitative data can't tell us why a user took an action,
only that they did.
This means that when quantitative data is examined,
there can be many interpretations for the cause of the recorded trends.
For example, imagine an app who's usage begins to go down among 18-25 year olds.
Analyzing quantitative data reveals this trend.
But quantitative data can't explain why the trend is occurring,
or what a product can do to change this trend.
For that, a product manager often turns to qualitative data.
Qualitative data is any data that
expresses the qualities or characteristics of something.
In product research, qualitative data often focuses on
human behavior and needs that can't simply be quantified by measuring user actions.
Qualitative data is often collected by talking to actual users or potential users,
often in interviews and focus groups.
Examples of the type of
qualitative information product managers collect includes customer use cases,
pain points experienced by users,
and the opinions and preferences of a user towards a potential feature or product.
Collecting qualitative data provides a great number of benefits to product managers.
But qualitative data also has its limitations.
A major benefit of qualitative data is that it provides insight
into why a user has done something or might be interested in a certain feature.
Qualitative data gives product managers access to a richer understanding of user wants,
desires, and concerns, that can guide them as they improve their product.
Qualitative data also has major drawbacks.
Because collecting qualitative data often requires talking to users,
the process of collecting qualitative data is much more time-consuming.
While quantitative data might be collected
automatically by your product as customers use it,
most qualitative data will require
conversations which take time to analyze and interpret.
Those some qualitative data can be quantified.
For example, you can count the number of users who are satisfied with your product.
Larger themes around customer needs and desires are often difficult to quantify.
Since qualitative data is time consuming to collect,
product managers often have to form hypotheses
from only a handful of qualitative data points.
To add onto this issue,
qualitative data has an inherent risk of inaccuracy.
Sometimes customers will tell you what they think you want to hear.
Even if customers tell you exactly what they think their motivations are,
many people don't know why they make the choices they do.
So qualitative data, especially when focusing on what a person might do,
must be considered with a grain of salt.
Let's revisit our earlier example of an app
whose usage began to go down among 18-25 year olds.
By interviewing users and former users in that age group,
product managers might get feedback that
the apps newest chat release doesn't allow video conversations anymore,
which is important to this demographic.
Understanding the why could help lead product managers to
new feature ideas to increase their apps appeal to 18-25 year olds.